[MUSIC PLAYING]
As an astrologer, I've
learned that I can instill fear
into most people by simply
using the magic of two words--
Mercury retrograde.
It's not that bad.
We have a huge misunderstanding
about what mercury
retrograde is and how it works.
The mechanics, first
of all, are simple.
And we all should know
it because there's
nothing mysterious about
Mercury going retrograde.
Basically, what happens is
that Mercury is a planet
that's going around the sun.
And we're on earth,
further away from the sun,
so we're watching Mercury
go around the sun.
And as mercury goes around
the sun three times a year,
it catches up to Earth on
its journey around the sun.
And as it catches up to
Earth, it becomes closer.
It gets closer to Earth.
And as it does, we
lose perspective.
I'm sure that most of us
have had the experience
of being in a train and seeing a
train on the tracks next to us.
And the train is so close
that we lose perspective.
And although we're going faster
than the train next to us,
it actually appears, as we
look through the windows,
that the train, or subway
car, or the car next to us,
it appears like it's
going backwards.
It's not actually
It's just going
forward less fast.
So with Mercury
retrograde, we're
not really talking about the
planets moving backwards.
We know that-- that they
don't move backwards.
But if we map them
against the night sky,
and as the ancients did, we
see that they appear to move
backwards against the zodiac.
The truth of the
matter is that when
a planet is closer to
Earth in its normal cycle,
its signal gets stronger.
Just like if you were talking
to someone nearby versus yelling
at someone who is far
away, versus yelling
at someone who is so far
away they couldn't hear you,
distance matters.
When Mercury gets close to
Earth, three times a year,
for about three weeks at a
time, it turns retrograde.
What happens is that the
archetypal energy of Mercury
is amped up.
So what's the archetype
of energy of Mercury?
Mercury is the messenger planet.
Mercury is the winged messenger
that delivers information.
Mercury is the planet
of thinking, of thought.
Mercury is the planet of facts.
Mercury is the planet of
sending and receiving data.
Whether we're just
doing it through static
and it's noise, or whether
we're doing it through language,
Mercury always has to
do with information
being sent and received.
In fact, the word
"merchandise" or "mercantile"
comes from Mercury because
even though there's
physical substance,
there's still something.
There's information
being exchanged.
So what happens when
Mercury gets closer to Earth
is that the traffic of
exchange becomes noisier.
Think of each individual
person as their own being
with communication wires, and
lines, and bridges, and roads,
and freeways that
connect each of us
to everyone else in our world.
Well, usually, those
roads have traffic
that we're familiar with.
But three times a year,
we enter a traffic jam.
And that traffic jam can
make that traffic so intense
that roads basically
build up traffic
and the cars can't move, that
bridges become so weighted
under the traffic
that they can actually
fall apart under the pressure.
Wires can fray because
the noise is so great.
Yes, it is true.
When Mercury is retrograde,
computers often go awry.
It is true that we can
misunderstand someone.
We can get directions and
make a left-hand turn instead
of a right-hand turn,
and find ourselves
30 miles out of the way.
We can even enter something
incorrectly on a GPS,
think we're going
to the right place,
and end up at the wrong place.
The fact of the matter is that
Mercury retrograde is not bad.
What's bad is when we act
without thinking, when
the information
becomes so intense
and everything
becomes so speeded up,
we jump to conclusions,
we say things wrong.
The practice for retrograde
Mercury is to put the R-E
letters, the "re-"
word, in front
of anything that you're doing.
Rethink, reconsider,
reevaluate, re-listen,
listen again-- do whatever it
is again so that you don't jump
to the erroneous
conclusion, so that you
don't make the wrong turn.
It has been said, and I've heard
this even from astrologers,
don't ever sign a contract
when Mercury is retrograde.
Don't go on trips.
Look, Mercury is retrograde for
a total of nine weeks a year,
and life doesn't stop during
those periods of time.
The key to succeeding to
surviving Mercury retrograde
is to pay attention to the
details, and to take the time
and read the fine print.
I have a friend who is
out looking for a car who
decided, on a
Mercury retrograde,
that he was going to buy a car.
And he said, I'm going
to go out looking.
And the first afternoon
he went out looking,
he came across a purple
little sports car,
fell in love with
it, and bought it.
And it took him
about a week or so
to realize it was a
pretty stupid thing
to do because he had dogs.
And it was like an impulse.
And you see, the thing is
that if you go out and buy
a computer, or buy a
car, or sign a contract
and don't take the time to
go over all the fine print--
you see, because when
Mercury is retrograde,
it's covering territory in the
sky where it's already been.
And sometimes we feel a
great sense of urgency
that if I don't buy that car
today, I'll miss the chance.
That car won't be
there tomorrow.
So again, the practice
with Mercury retrograde
is slow down.
Remember you have more
time than you think,
that Mercury retrogrades,
and turns direct, and turns
retrograde, and turns direct.
And as long as you
follow the flow
and tie up those loose
ends the best you can,
you won't fall into the
abyss of the problem
of Mercury retrograde.
[MUSIC PLAYING]